The President:
Right now, there are a lot of
folks who are still struggling
with the effects
of the recession.
They're wondering how they'd
deal with an unexpected expense
if their car breaks down.
They're worried about layoffs.
They're not sure if they can
help their kids pay for college.
And for many families, these
challenges were around long
before the recession
hit in 2007.
I ran for President because I
believed in an America where
ordinary folks
could get ahead --
where if you worked hard,
you could have a better life.
That's been my focus
since I came into office,
and that has to
be our focus now.
It's one of the reasons why
we're working to reduce our
nation's deficit.
Government has to start
living within its means,
just like families do.
We have to cut the spending we
can't afford so we can put the
economy on a sounder footing
and give our businesses the
confidence they need to
grow and create jobs.
The good news is, Democrats and
Republicans agree on the need to
solve the problem, and
over the last few weeks,
the Vice President and I have
gotten both parties to identify
more than $1 trillion
in spending cuts --
that's trillion with a T.
But after a decade in which
Washington ran up the country's
credit card, we've got to
find more savings to get out
of the red.
That means looking at every
program and tax break in the
budget -- every single one --
to find places to cut waste and
save money.
It means we'll have to start
making some tough decisions and
scale back worthy programs.
And nothing can be off-limits,
including spending in the tax
code -- particularly the
loopholes that benefit very few
individuals and corporations.
Now, it would be nice if we
could keep every tax break --
but we can't afford them.
Because if we choose to
keep those tax breaks for
millionaires and billionaires,
or for hedge fund managers and
corporate jet owners, or for oil
and gas companies pulling in
huge profits without our help,
then we'll have to make even
deeper cuts somewhere else.
We've got to say to a
student, you don't get a
college scholarship.
We have to say to a
medical researcher,
you can't do that
cancer research.
We might have to tell seniors,
you have to pay more for
your Medicare.
That isn't right
and it isn't smart.
We've got to cut the deficit,
but we can do that while making
investments in education and
research and technology that
actually create jobs.
We can live within our means
while still investing in
our future.
That's what we have to do.
And I'm confident that Democrats
and Republicans in Congress can
find a way to give some ground,
make some tough choices,
and put their shoulders to the
wheel to get this done for the
sake of the country.
On Monday, we celebrate
Independence Day --
the day we declared a new nation
based on a revolutionary idea
that people ought to
determine their own destiny;
that freedom and self-governance
weren't gifts handed to us by
kings or emperors, but the
rights of every human being.
We've learned in the years since
that democracy isn't always
pretty -- we have
arguments, we disagree.
But time and again, we've proven
that we could come together to
solve problems.
We remember that while we
may not see eye to eye on
everything, we share a love
for this country and a faith in
its future.
That's the spirit we
need to harness now.
That's how we'll
meet this challenge,
and that's how we'll
reach a brighter day.
Thanks for listening, and have
a wonderful Fourth of July.